What is the African lion?
It is the second-largest living big cat after the tiger. Males are unique among the cat species for their thick mane of brown or black hair encircling their head and neck. The mane darkens with age, and the thicker and darker a mane is the healthier the cat. Both males and females roar — a sound heard as far as 8 kilometers away.
Conservation Status: Vulnerable
Scientific name: Panthera Leo
Weight: 125 to 272 kilograms (277 to 600 pounds)
Size: 1.2 meters at the shoulder (48 inches) and about 2 to 3.3 meters in length (7 to 11 feet)
Life span:10 to 18 years in the wild. Up to 30 years in captivity.
Habitat: Grassy plains and open woodlands
Diet: Carnivorous
Gestation:Average about 109 days
Predators: Humans

What are rhinos?
Rhinos may look like prehistoric creatures, and they do date back millions of years to the Miocene era, but they are also mammals like us. There are two species of African rhinos, the white rhino and black rhino, and each is distinct in its own way. The white, or square-lipped, rhino derives its name from the Dutch word “weit,” meaning wide. It is actually gray in color and has a hump on its neck and a long face. The black, or hooked-lipped, rhino has a thick, hairless gray hide. Both rhinos have two horns.

Conservation Status:Critically Endangered
Scientific name
Black: Diceros bicornis
White: Ceratotherium simum
Weight
Black: 1 to 1.5 tn. (2,000 to 3,000 lb.)
White: More than 2 tn. (4,000+ lb.)
Size: About 60 in. at the shoulder
Life span: 35 to 40 years
Habitat:Grassland and open savanna
Diet:Herbivorous
Gestation:16 months
Predators:Humans

What is an antelope?
Antelopes are hoofed mammals with hollow horns commonly mistaken for deer. The name ‘antelope’ is a catch-all term for many species in the Bovidae family. Still, scientifically, the only ‘true antelopes’ are the members of the Gazella, Nanger, Eudorcas, and Antilope genera. Other groups called antelopes include the subfamily Aepycerotinae, of which the near threatened saiga is the only living member, and the subfamily Acelaphinae, which includes the wildebeest.
Antelopes come in a staggering range of shapes and sizes, with some built for pure speed and others for agility. The largest antelope (the giant eland) can stand as tall as 182 centimetres (six feet), while the smallest (the royal antelope) is only 25 centimetres (10 inches) tall.

Some are coloured for camouflage so they can hide in their environment, while others have revealing patterns that help them stay visible to their herd.

Tiger
There are two recognized subspecies of tiger*: the continental (Panthera tigris tigris) and the Sunda (Panthera tigris sondaica). The largest of all the Asian big cats, tigers rely primarily on sight and sound rather than smell for hunting. They typically hunt alone and stalk prey. A tiger can consume more than 80 pounds of meat at one time. On average, tigers give birth to two to four cubs every two years. If all the cubs in one litter die, a second litter may be produced within five months.

Tigers generally gain independence at around two years of age and attain sexual maturity at age three or four for females and four or five years for males. Juvenile mortality is high, however—about half of all cubs do not survive more than two years. Tigers have been known to reach up to 20 years of age in the wild.